1.Explain a subquery in your own words.
    a search within a seach

2.Where can you use a subquery within a SELECT statement?
    The SELECT the FROM or the WHERE

3.When would you employ a subquery?
    Then often be used in place of a JOIN statment and create a more readable search.  Given A, what are the results of B.

4.Explain a row constructor in your own words.
    build a row in a table with a list of values in order of the columns of the table

5.What happens if a row in the subquery result provides a NULL value to the comparison?
    The result of hte comparison will be NULL or not TRUE

6.What are the ways to use a subquery within a WHERE clause? If you can't remember them, do these flashcards until you can.
    IN, NOT IN, ANY, SOME, ALL, EXISTS, and NOT EXISTS

7.Build an employees table and a shifts table with appropriate primary and foreign keys. Then, write queries to find the following information:
    a. List all employees and all shifts.
    b. Create a list of all possible schedules.

8.Given a dogs table, adoptions table, adopters table, and volunteers table , write queries to retrieve the following information. All tables are described below.
    a.Create a list of all volunteers. If the volunteer is fostering a dog, include each dog as well.
    
    b.List the adopter’s name and the pet’s name for each animal adopted within the past month to be displayed as a ‘Happy Tail’ on social media.
    
    c.Create a list of adopters who have not yet chosen a dog to adopt and generate all possible combinations of adopters and available dogs.
    
    d.Display a list of all cats and all dogs who have not been adopted.
    
    e.Create a list of volunteers who are available to foster. If they currently are fostering a dog, include the dog. Also include all dogs who are not currently in foster homes.

9.Write a query to find the name of the person who adopted Seashell given the tables cats, adoptions, and adopters. All tables are described below

10.Given the tables books (isbn, title, author), transactions (id, checked_out_date, checked_in_date, user_id, isbn), holds (id, isbn, user_id, rank, date), and patrons (id, name, fine_amount), write queries to find the following information:
    a.To discern if the library should buy more copies of a given book, please provide the names and position, in order, of all of the patrons waiting in line for Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone.
    
    b.Make a list of all book titles and denote whether or not a copy of that book is checked out.
    
    c.In an effort to learn which books take longer to read, the librarians would like you to create a list of total checked out time by book name in the past month.
    
    d.In order to learn which items should be retired, make a list of all books that have not been checked out in the past 5 years.
    
    e.List all of the library patrons. If they have one or more books checked out, correspond the books to the patrons.

11.Given the following tables in an airliner database, find the following information. airplanes (model, seat capacity, range), flights(flight_number, destination, origin, company, distance, flight_time, airplane_model), transactions(id, seats_sold, total_revenue, total_cost, flight_number, date)
    a.To determine the most profitable airplanes, find all airplane models where each flight has had over 100 paying customers in the past month.
    
    b.To determine the most profitable flights, find all destination-origin pairs where 90% or more of the seats have been sold in the past month.
    
    c.The airline is looking to expand its presence in the US Southeast and globally. Find the total revenue of any flight arriving at or departing from Atlanta.

12.Compare the subqueries you've written above. Compare them to the joins you wrote in Checkpoint 6. Which ones are more readable? Which were more logical to write?