1.List the commands for adding, updating, and deleting data
    adding: INSERT INTO (table) VALUES (values)
    updating: UPDATE (table) SET (values) WHERE (value referenced)
    delete:  DELETE FROM (table) WHERE (value referenced) 

2.Explain the structure for each type of command.
    First you state which command you want to execute, then specify which table you want to modify, then which values in that table you want to modify.

3.What are some the data types that can be used in tables? Give a real world example of each.

4.Think through how to create a new table to hold a list of people invited to a wedding. This table needs to have first and last name, whether they sent in their RSVP, the number of guests they are bringing, and the number of meals (1 for adults and 1/2 for children).

    a. Which data type would you use to store each of the following pieces of information?
        i. First and last name.
        ii. Whether they sent in their RSVP.
        iii. Number of guests.
        iv. Number of meals.
    b. Write a command that makes the table to track the wedding.
    c. Using the table we just created, write a command that adds a column to track whether they were sent a thank you card.
    d. You have decided to move the data about the meals to another table, so write a command to remove the column storing the number meals from the wedding table.
    e. The guests are going to need a place to sit at the reception, so write a statement that adds a column for table number.
    f. The wedding is over and we do not need to keep this information, so write a command that deletes the wedding table from the database.

5.Write a command to make a new table to hold the books in a library with the columns ISBN, title, author, genre, publishing date, number of copies, and available copies.

    a. Find three books and add their information to the table.
    b. Say that someone has just checked out one of the books. Change the available copies column to 1 less.
    c. Now one of the books has been added to the banned books list. Remove it from the table.

6. Write a command to make a new table to hold spacecrafts. Information should include id, name, year launched, country of origin, a brief description of the mission, orbiting body, if it is currently operating, and approximate miles from Earth.

    a. Add 3 non-Earth-orbiting satellites to the table.
    b. Remove one of the satellites from the table since it has just been crashed into the planet.
    c. Edit another satellite because it is no longer operating and change the value to reflect that.

7.Write a command to make a new table to hold the emails in your inbox. This table should include an id, the subject line, the sender, any additional recipients, the body of the email, the timestamp, whether or not it’s been read, and the id of the email chain it’s in.

    a. Add 3 new emails to the inbox.
    b. You’ve just deleted one of the emails, so write a command to remove the row from the inbox table.
    c. You started reading an email but just heard a crash in another room. Mark the email as unread before investigating, so you can come back to it later.