1.Given the values table below, what data types do each of these values represent?
    A Clockwork Orange = string
    42 = intiger
    09/02/1945 = date
    98.7 = float
    15.99 = float

2.Explain in your own words when a database might be used. Explain when a text file might be used.
    databases are used anytime you need to store values for objects.  It can keep large amounts of data organized
    an example of when you'd use a text file is when you need to explain something, instructions on how to build a desk from supplied parts for example.

3.Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.
    SQL is declaritive and other languages we've use so far are procederial.  Declaritive languages do not require you to do step by step instructions
    you just tell it what you want and it give it to you, ie, get me a sammich.  Procederial languages requires you to include all the steps.
    IE, grab ingredients, spread peanut butter on bread, spread jelly on bread, join slices of bread spread etc.  

4.In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.
    Databases are like the matrix, they are just a series of one's and zeros.  Meaning they store their information in binary file formats.

5.Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.
    A table is a collection of valuess organized by rows and columns
    Rows are read left to right horizontaly
    Columns are read top to bottom vertically
    Values are the objects stored at the intersection of a row and column

6.List 3 data types that can be used in a table.
    strings
    intigers
    booleans

7.Given the payments table below, provide an English description and the results for the following queries:
    1) from the payments table, give me the all the amounts paid and all the dates of payments
    2) from the payments table, give me only the amounts paid that are greater than 500
    3) from the payments table, give me all data related to the payee "Mega Foods"

8.Given the users table below, write the following SQL queries and their results:

    a. Select the email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.
        SELECT email, signup
        FROM users
        WHERE name  = 'DeAndre Data';
        
    b. Select the user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.
        SELECT userid
        FROM users
        WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';
        
    c. Select all the columns for the user ID equal to 4.
        SELECT *
        FROM users
        WHERE userid = 4;